Title: ISIL militants fight for Ukrainian Army, the DPR officials say
Date/Time: 14 January 2016, 11:06
Author: None given

***Arabs open camps for training terrorists in Ukraine

Moscow, January 14, Interfax - The self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic officials say about dozens of Islamist military bands fighting in Donbass for the Ukrainian Army.

"After activation of relations between Kiev and Ankara, the flow of radical islamists to the zone of the so-called anti-terrorist operation (ATO) has increased. According to the information of the DPR intelligence service, about 30 such groups are participating in the military actions today. An international search has been launched to find some of these criminals," deputy commander of the DPR Defense Ministry corpus Eduard Basurin said at a briefing on Wednesday.

He pointed out to the example of the "the Johar Dudayev radical Islamic terrorist battalion that list about 300 militants and is included in Interior Ministry military division Zolotye Vorota in order to legitimize their presence in Donbass.

"Terrorist military bands fighting for Ukrainian regular army are located in Dzerzhinsk, Artyomovsk, Avdeyevka and Shirokino. According to our information, Ukraine also helps "the Islamic State" (terrorist organization prohibited in Russia - IF) in order to thank terrorist organizations of Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Turkey for their support of punitive operation in Donbass ," Basurin said.

According to him, there are camps in Ukraine where terrorists train Ukrainian nationalists to blow up civil objects, to kill peaceful citizens in public places, to penetrate military objects and blow up themselves together with enemy's militants.

"Arab teachers pay special attention to psychology and tactics of terrorist war. Ukrainian authorities shut their eyes for total enrollment of Ukrainian youth for participating in military conflict against governmental troops in Syria and other hot spots. For example, suicide bomber trained in Kharkov recently blew up himself in Jordan. It is not excluded that they commit terrorist acts in Europe," the DPR official said.

He noted that the intelligence service more and more often find facts proving that Ukrainian military officials sell weapons from the ATO zone to terrorists in Syria and Iraq.