Title: Russian general warns: NATO is preparing for a major conflict
Date/Time: 12/18/2019 12:45 PM
Author: None given

NATO military exercises in the Baltic countries, Poland, as well as in the waters of the Black and Baltic Seas indicate the fact that the Alliance is preparing for a large-scale conflict, said the Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Valery Gerasimov, addressing foreign military attachés.

"In the Baltic countries and Poland, on the Black and Baltic Seas, the bloc's military activities are intensifying. "Their scenarios indicate the targeted preparation of NATO for the deployment of its forces in a major military conflict," Gerasimov said, reports the "Red Star" portal.

He noted that the bloc promotes the thesis of a "Russian military threat" , interpreting every action of Russia to ensure security or every planned transparent event in the field of military construction as a "threat to peace". "In the doctrinal documents of Brussels, Russia has the status of an opponent," the general emphasized.

Moreover, at the last NATO summit in London, it was announced that the formation of forces and high-readiness assets within the "four-thirty" initiative had been completed. A significant increase in the efficiency of transferring troops and forces to the "eastern wing" of the alliance has also been announced, Gerasimov added.

"In order to ensure dominance in space, the summit decided to recognize space as a special area of ​​warfare in parallel with land, air, sea and cyberspace," the general added, recalling that the deployment of US missile defense forces in Europe continues.

Gerasimov also reminded that since 2016, they have been members of the alliance increased expenditure for defense by $ 130 billion, and is planned to increase by $ 400 billion by 2024. He stressed that the bloc's actions increase tensions and reduce the level of security on the line of contact between Russia and NATO.

Gerasimov said that he considered it necessary to renew the cooperation between Russia and NATO in order to solve the accumulated problematic issues.

"Reducing the risk of dangerous incidents in the military field should remain the most important area of ​​dialogue between Russia on the one hand and the United States and NATO on the other. "It is necessary to renew the cooperation between Russia and NATO in order to solve the accumulated problematic issues," Gerasimov explained.

The general also said that there is uncertainty in the field of nuclear weapons control due to the position of the United States of America.

The United States has not expressed a clear position regarding the extension of the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (START-3), he said, adding that all this creates additional uncertainty in the field of nuclear weapons control.

At the same time, the general reminded that the validity of the Strategic Arms Agreement expires in 2021 and that President Vladimir Putin confirmed Russia's readiness by the end of this year. extend the START-3 Agreement.

The state of Russia's strategic nuclear forces provides a solution to the problems of containment, while their development is taking place in strict accordance with international obligations, Gerasimov concluded.
